Rewrite JS3 week 1 prep (#351)
CodeYourFuture/curriculum: content/js3/blocks/using-map/index.md

+++
title = '🗺️ Using map'
headless = true
time = 45
facilitation = false
emoji= '🧩'
[objectives]
    1='Describe how map works'
+++

For every item in a starting array, we want to apply a function to each element in the starting array to create a new array. Earlier, we used a `for...of` statement to apply the function `createFilmCard` to each element in the array. However, we can also build an array like this using [the `map` array method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Array/map). `map` is a {{<tooltip title="higher order function">}} A **higher-order function** is a function that takes another function as an argument or returns a new function{{</tooltip>}}. In this case, it means we pass a function as an argument to `map`. Then `map` will use this function to create a new array.

We can demonstrate how `map` works with the following example:

```js
const arr = [5, 20, 30];

function double(num) {
  return num * 2;
}
```

> In this example, our goal is to create a new array of doubled numbers given this array and function. In other words, we want to create the array `[10, 40, 60]`. Firstly, we can observe a one-to-one mapping:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our goal is to create a new array of doubled numbers given this array and function. We want to create the array `[10, 40, 60]`.  Look, it's another "one to one mapping"
```

Use the array visualiser to observe what happens when `map` is used on the `arr`. Try changing the elements of `arr` and the function that is passed to `map`. Answer the following questions in the visualiser:

- What does `map` do?
- What does `map` return?
- What parameters does the `map` method take?
- What parameters does the callback function take?

{{</tab>}}

{{<tab name="🎮 Play computer">}}

<iframe title="play-computer-arrays" width="1100" height="400" frameborder="0" src="https://pythontutor.com/iframe-embed.html#code=function%20double%28num%29%20%7B%0A%20%20return%20num%20*%202%3B%0A%7D%0A%0Aconst%20arr%20%3D%20%5B5,%2020,%2030%5D%3B%0Aconst%20doubledNums%20%3D%20arr.map%28double%29%3B&codeDivHeight=400&codeDivWidth=350&cumulative=false&curInstr=0&heapPrimitives=nevernest&origin=opt-frontend.js&py=js&rawInputLstJSON=%5B%5D&textReferences=false"> </iframe>

Play computer with the example to see what happens when the `map` is called.

{{</tab>}}

{{<tab name="🔨Implement">}}

Given the list of film data:

```js
const films = [
  {
    title: "Killing of Flower Moon",

>     director: "Martin Scoresee"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    director: "Martin Scorsese"
```

    times: ["15:35"],
    certificate: "15",
    duration: 112
  },
  {
    title: "Typist Artist Pirate King",

>     directory: "Carol Morley"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    director: "Carol Morley"
```

+++
title = '🗺️ map'
headless = true
time = 30
facilitation = false
emoji= '🧩'
[objectives]
    1='Describe how to use map'
    2='Describe why we use map instead of other iteration techniques'
+++

### Using `map`

For every item in the starting array we want to apply a function to all the elements in the array to create a new array.
Earlier, we used a `for...of` statement to apply the function `createShowCard` to each element in the array. However, we can also use `map` to do this.

> `map` is a {{<tooltip title="higher order function">}} A **higher order function** is a function that takes another function as an argument or returns a new function{{</tooltip>}}. In this case, it means we pass a function as an argument to `map`. Then `map` will use this function to create a new array. Let's consider an example with a list of numbers and a function `Math.round` that returns the rounded number. Our goal is to create a new array of rounded numbers from the starting array of numbers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`map` is a {{<tooltip title="higher order function">}} A **higher order function** is a function that takes another function as an argument or returns a new function{{</tooltip>}}. In this case, it means we pass a function as an argument to `map`. Then `map` will use this function to create a new array. 

Consider a list of numbers and a function `Math.round` that returns the rounded number. Our goal is to create a new array of rounded numbers from the starting array of numbers:
```
